WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s decision to break the recent tradition of sitting for an interview with the news network broadcasting the Super Bowl came after a series of discussions between Fox and White House officials. 
Fox proposed having one of its news anchors, such as Bret Baier or Shannon Bream, conduct the interview, said a person familiar with the matter, but the president’s team rejected those choices, and decided about 72 hours before kickoff that Biden would do the interview with the network’s little-known streaming channel Fox Soul. 
The back and forth spilled into the public view Friday morning when White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre tweeted that Fox Corp. had canceled the Fox Soul interview. Several hours later, Fox Corp. released a statement saying there had been “confusion” with the White House, and that the interview with Fox Soul was back on track with actor Vivica A. Fox, the host of Fox Soul’s “Cocktails with Queens” and “Fox Soul’s Screening Room” as well as Mike Hill, a Fox Soul personality and contributor and Fox Sports sportscaster.
The White House saw things differently.
“As we said earlier, we had arranged an interview with FOX Sports Host Mike Hill & Vivica A. Fox with the President ahead of the Super Bowl and Fox Corp had the interview cancelled,” a White House official said in a statement to NBC News later Friday. “FOX has since put out a statement indicating the interview was rescheduled, which is inaccurate.”
The disagreement over an interview that typically lasts about 10 minutes and airs as millions of Americans tune in for what’s often the most-watched television event of the year suggests simmering tensions between the Biden White House and Fox may be reaching new heights.
Biden has done interviews with multiple television networks that cover the White House — ABC, CBS, CNN, NBC and, just this week, PBS — but not Fox News. He previously sat for Super Bowl interviews with news anchors for CBS and NBC when the networks hosted the game in 2021 and 2022, respectively.
This year, he would have been interviewed on Fox Soul before the Philadelphia Eagles and Kansas City Chiefs face off by Hill and Vivica Fox, who was a surrogate during Biden’s 2020 presidential campaign and continues to express support for him, including in a tweet this week after his State of the Union address. 
A Fox Corp. spokesperson said Hill and Vivica Fox, as well as the general manager of Fox Soul, James DuBose, flew to Washington on Friday from Los Angeles to conduct the interview. DuBose was to produce the interview, the spokesperson said.
After the president’s team complained that the interview had been canceled Friday, the White House official said that the network would have shared the interview across its platforms.
Fox News anchors in recent days had discussed on-air that the White House had not confirmed a Super Bowl interview with Biden, with Baier noting during the network’s State of the Union coverage on Tuesday, “We are running out of days.”
Chris Kofinis, a Democratic strategist, said Biden’s decision to shun an interview with a Fox News anchor could be a missed opportunity and advised against shrinking from a chance to reach millions of viewers because of a network’s political leanings.
“Any time you get to speak to that many millions of Americans, it’s an enormous positive,” he added. “You gotta do it, no matter who is asking the questions.”
The Super Bowl pregame show where Biden’s interview would air often draws much lower viewers than the game itself. In 2020, Fox’s pregame averaged 21.6 million viewers, while 148 million watched all or parts of the game. By comparison, an estimated 27.3 million people tuned in to the president’s televised State of the Union address this year.
The White House’s decision to buck Fox News and agree to an interview with Fox Soul — however fleeting — did earn Biden some praise, however, with NPR media analyst Eric Deggans tweeting, “Masterful move by Biden, arranging a Super Bowl interview w/Black-focused Fox Soul, sidestepping Fox News Channel…”
Fox Soul, which began streaming in 2020, describes itself as focused on “Black News, Inspiration, Celebrity, Social Justice & more.”
The potential interview was also the subject of a spirited debate Friday morning on the ABC talk show “The View.” 
One of the hosts, Sunny Hostin, said Biden shouldn’t “normalize the misinformation network,” while another co-host, Alyssa Farah, disagreed.
“I think the biggest thing wrong with our politics right now is people exist in their echo chambers,” said Farah, who worked in the Trump White House.
Biden wouldn’t be the first president in recent years to forgo a Super Bowl interview.
Former President Donald Trump did not do an interview when NBC broadcast the game in 2018. That was the only time a president skipped a Super Bowl interview since former President Barack Obama did his first one in 2009. During his eight years in office, Obama gave gameday interviews with three networks and six news anchors.
Obama’s predecessor, former President George W. Bush, participated as well but he didn’t make it an annual event. Bush was interviewed live from the Rose Garden in 2004 by CBS sports commentator Jim Nantz, with football being the main topic of discussion. In his remarks, Bush called on professional sports to “get very tough on players who use steroids” because of the message it sends to children.
As for Biden’s plans for Super Bowl Sunday, the president told Telemundo this week he will be “watching from home” with guacamole and “a little chocolate chip ice cream afterwards.” His wife, first lady Jill Biden, a diehard Philadelphia Eagles fan, is traveling to Glendale, Ariz., for the game.

A U.S. fighter jet shot down an unidentified object in the skies over Canada on Saturday on Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s orders, Canadian and U.S. officials confirmed.
After U.S. and Canadian military aircraft were sent aloft, a U.S. F-22 successfully shot down the object over the Yukon, Trudeau said Saturday afternoon in a tweet.
The operation was coordinated by the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), the combined U.S.-Canada air defense organization.
On Sunday, Trudeau said investigators are hunting for wreckage of the flying object.
“Recovery teams are on the ground, looking to find and analyze the object,” Trudeau told reporters before departing for a previously scheduled fund-raising event in Yukon.
Trudeau’s comments came as U.S. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer told ABC that U.S. officials believe the object — as well as another flying object shot down near Deadhorse, Alaska, on Friday — were both balloons.
Saturday’s shoot down of an object in the skies over North America is the third in less than two weeks.
In a streamed news conference Saturday evening, Canada’s defense minister, Anita Anand, described the object as cylindrical and smaller than an object that was recovered off the U.S. coast after it was shot down Feb. 4. She said it was otherwise “potentially similar” to the one that was shot down off South Carolina.
On Saturday, the object was shot down at 3:41 p.m. ET, about 100 miles from the U.S.-Canada border and 40,000 feet aloft after crews in U.S. and Canadian aircraft put eyes on it, Anand said. She described the area as central Yukon.
"This was the first time that a NORAD operation has downed an aerial object," Anand, noted. "The importance of this moment should not be underestimated."
The White House and Pentagon officials confirmed earlier Saturday that the decision was made in consultation with President Joe Biden, who was informed Friday of the object's presence.
“Following a call between the Prime Minister of Canada and the President of the United States, President Biden authorized U.S. fighter aircraft assigned to North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) to work with Canada to take down a high-altitude airborne object over northern Canada today," Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder, the Pentagon press secretary, said in a statement.
A White House official said a military recommendation was to take down the object out of an abundance of caution, and both leaders agreed.
Biden authorized U.S. aircraft under NORAD command to conduct the operation in close coordination with Canadian authorities, according to the official.
The object was known to the United States as early as Friday and had been closely monitored by NORAD over the past 24 hours, with Biden receiving updates, according to the official.
Ryder subsequently said NORAD launched aircraft to follow the object Friday evening when it was over Alaskan airspace.
"Two F-22 aircraft from Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska monitored the object over U.S. airspace with the assistance of Alaska Air National Guard refueling aircraft, tracking it closely and taking time to characterize the nature of the object," the brigadier general said.
"I ordered the take down of an unidentified object that violated Canadian airspace," Trudeau tweeted Saturday.
"I spoke with President Biden this afternoon," he added. "Canadian Forces will now recover and analyze the wreckage of the object. "
Trudeau thanked North American Aerospace Defense Command "for keeping watch over North America."
An AIM 9X missile was used in the takedown, Ryder said.
The FBI was working with Royal Canadian Mounted Police to probe the source of the object, he said.
Anand said debris was being recovered Saturday night. Although the object's origins were not yet known, the defense minister said Canada and the United States needed to proceed with "eyes wide open" to the possible involvement of China.
According to a White House readout of Saturday's call between Biden and Trudeau, the two discussed the importance of recovering wreckage in order to determine the object's purpose and origin.
Later Saturday, NORAD and the U.S. Northern Command (NORTHCOM) reported that fighter aircraft had been sent to investigate a radar-detected “anomaly” in airspace over Montana.
“Those aircraft did not identify any object to correlate to the radar hits,” the agencies said in a statement. “NORAD will continue to monitor the situation.
Airspace in the area was closed temporarily.
NORAD and other agencies were still grappling with earlier incursions. The command said Friday that it was continuing recovery efforts off the coast of South Carolina for a suspected Chinese spy balloon shot down Feb. 4. 
Saturday's incident over the Yukon followed Friday's takedown of what National Security Council official John Kirby described as a "high-altitude object" flying over Alaskan airspace and Arctic waters. Kirby said the object was "roughly the size of a small car."
Efforts to recover what was left of the object were taking place near Deadhorse, Alaska, on Saturday, but the team was challenged by sea ice, wind chill, snow, limited daylight and other conditions that envelop the region in winter.
The U.S. Northern Command said in a statement that its Alaska Command and the Alaska National Guard were coordinating with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies. The effort was not explicitly connected to the suspected spy balloon of Feb. 4, but information on recovery efforts in the waters off South Carolina was included in the Northern Command statement.
Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, told NBC’s “Nightly News with Lester Holt” on Friday that the balloon shot down Feb. 4 was “a threat to our sovereignty.”
On Saturday, she commended U.S. military efforts to take down the object over Canada and said Americans need to know as much as possible about the apparent incursions.
“I will continue to encourage maximum transparency so that Alaskans have the greatest possible understanding of what they are and what we are doing, on the front line of our nation’s defense, to take them safely out of the sky,” Murkowski said in a statement.
Fellow Republican Sen. Dan Sullivan of Alaska urged rapid recovery and investigation of the object shot down over Canada “to fully understand the nature of the threat we are facing right now.”
On Thursday, the Chinese Defense Ministry said the Feb. 4 balloon takedown “seriously violates international practice and sets a bad precedent.”
The ministry also described a unanimous resolution by U.S. House lawmakers condemning China’s use of the balloon as "political manipulation and hype." Chinese government officials maintain it was a civilian airship.

Nevada Gov. Joe Lombardo declared a state emergency Friday night after a leak was detected in a pipeline that supplies fuel to Las Vegas.
The leak was detected Thursday at a pumping station in Long Beach, California, said Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, which operates the impacted pipeline.
A spokesperson for the company said the station and the pipeline have been isolated and shut down. In an updated statement Saturday, the spokesperson said that the source of the leak had been isolated and "restart activities are underway."
"We expect these pipelines to resume operations this afternoon and begin delivering fuel to their respective market areas later today," spokesperson Katherine Hill said.
Officials in Clark County, Nevada, said the emergency declaration will allow the state to lift restrictions on trucking and other delivery methods to bring fuel into the county.
"This leak has not impacted the supply of fuel, but rather the method in which this fuel normally comes into Southern Nevada," county officials said in a tweet. "Clark County is in regular communication with Kinder Morgan and they are working as quickly as possible to repair the leak."
The officials added that "this declaration allows for our region to leave no stone unturned as we seek to continue to provide unleaded and diesel fuel to our residents as well as our emergency response providers."
Lombardo urged residents not to panic buy so it does not create unnecessary shortages. But videos posted on social media showed cars lined up at local gas stations.
Officials in Nye County, Nevada, informed its residents Saturday afternoon that fuel systems were coming back online following the shutdown.
"Fuel should be flowing within the next few hours," the county tweeted, telling residents "to delay fuel purchases if possible to allow supply to refill due to recent panic purchasing."
Kinder Morgan said it is still investigating the cause and quantity of the leak and the appropriate regulatory agencies have been notified.

GAZIANTEP, Turkey — The chances of anyone being found alive are fading quickly in the southern Turkish city of Gaziantep.  
Some maintain vigils in makeshift tents but hope is disappearing that any more survivors will be pulled from the rubble of buildings days after two massive earthquakes destroyed them, and a death toll that looks set to keep rising.   
On one block where three buildings collapsed, rescue crews now focus on recovering bodies. Some women wailed in grief for their lost loved ones, but no one wanted to talk when NBC News visited Sunday, their grief still too raw. 
Around 25 miles away in the village of Atalar, some aid made it through on Saturday. Insulation brought in on a government truck was quickly snapped up. Residents said some tents arrived earlier in the day, but it was not enough. 
Frail from days in the freezing cold, Teslime Karacaliogu said she was sleeping in a car with other families.
“I have three orphans with me,” she said, bursting into tears as she recalled that one night she was forced to sleep in the mud. “It was snowing and raining when the earthquake happened. We were freezing when we went outside. … It was a terrible day,” she said. 
With each hour that passes, the chances of finding survivors grows more remote as the death toll in Turkey and neighboring Syria rose above 34,000 early Sunday.  
The first of Monday’s devastating quakes struck Turkey and neighboring Syria in the early hours and registered at magnitude- 7.8. It qualified as “major” on the official magnitude calculator. Hours later, a second quake, registering at 7.6-magnitude, struck nearby.
In the city of Kahramanmaras, near the epicenter, Ersin Nalbantoglue said late Friday that  “countless” friends and family members were still missing — and that she’d lost hope that any more would be pulled out alive.
“We’re in shock right now,” she said. “I don’t think we realize the magnitude of this disaster. It’s unbelievable. The whole city is gone now.” 
As the shock subsides, some have expressed frustration that rescue operations have proceeded slowly, and that valuable time has been lost during the narrow window for finding people alive beneath the rubble. 
Anger over the extent of the destruction is, however, not limited to individuals, and authorities have been detaining or issuing detention warrants for dozens of people who were allegedly involved in the construction of buildings that collapsed. 
Vowing to punish those responsible, Turkey’s Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag said in a statement posted to Twitter on Sunday that proceedings had been launched against 134 people suspected of being responsible for destroyed buildings.
Farther south in Syria, earthquake aid from government-held parts of the country into territory controlled by hardline opposition groups has been delayed, a United Nations spokesperson told Reuters on Sunday, adding the U.N. continued “to work with relevant parties to have access to the area.”
Martin Griffiths, the U.N. emergency relief coordinator, tweeted Sunday that the people of northwest Syria had been “failed.” 
“They rightly feel abandoned. Looking for international help that hasn’t arrived,” he posted. “My duty and our obligation is to correct this failure as fast as we can.That’s my focus now.”
Gabe Gutierrez reported from Gaziantep and Leila Sackur from London.

Russian forces shelled Ukrainian cities Sunday amid a grinding push to seize more land in the east of the country, with officials in Kyiv saying that Moscow is having trouble launching its much-anticipated large-scale offensive there.
One person was killed and one more was wounded on Sunday morning by the shelling of Nikopol, a city in the southeastern Dnipropetrovsk region, Gov. Serhii Lysak reported. The shelling damaged four residential buildings, a vocational school and a water treatment facility.
In Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second largest city, one person was wounded after three Russian S-300 missiles hit infrastructure facilities overnight, regional Gov. Oleh Syniehubov said.
Ukrainian forces also downed five drones — four Shahed killer drones and one Orlan-10 reconnaissance drone — over the partially occupied Zaporizhzhia and Donetsk regions on Saturday evening, Kyiv’s military reported.
The attacks come as Russian forces push to take over more land in the eastern industrial heartland of Donbas, comprised of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Ukrainian and Western officials have warned that Russia could launch a new, broad offensive there to try to turn the tide of the conflict as the war approaches the one-year mark.
But Ukrainian officials say that Moscow is having trouble mounting such an offensive.
“They are having big problems with a big offensive,” Oleksiy Danilov, the secretary of Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council, told Ukrainian television on Saturday night.
“They have begun their offensive, they’re just not saying they have, and our troops are repelling it very powerfully. The offensive that they planned is already gradually underway. But (it is) not the offensive they were counting on,” Danilov said.
A U.S.-based think tank noted that it is also Russia’s pro-Kremlin military bloggers who question Moscow’s ability to launch a broad offensive in Ukraine. They “continue to appear demoralized at the Kremlin’s prospects for executing a major offensive,” the Institute for the Study of War said in its latest report.
Earlier this week the owner of the Russian Wagner Group private military contractor actively involved in the fighting in Ukraine said that the war could drag on for years.
The group's founder Yevgeny Prigozhin said in a video interview released late Friday that it could take 18 months to two years for Russia to fully secure control of Donbas. He added that the war could go on for three years if Moscow decides to capture broader territories east of the Dnieper River.
The statement from Prigozhin, a millionaire who has close links to Russian President Vladimir Putin and was dubbed “Putin’s chef” for his lucrative Kremlin catering contracts, marked a recognition of the difficulties that the Kremlin has faced in the campaign, which it initially expected to wrap up within weeks when Russian troops invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Russia suffered a series of humiliating setbacks in the fall when the Ukrainian military launched successful counteroffensives to reclaim broad swaths of territory in the east and the south.
On Sunday, Prigozhin said that Wagner fighters have taken over the Krasna Hora settlement north of Bakhmut, a strategic city at the epicenter of the fighting in recent months.

Cherie DeVille lives in perpetual fear of losing her 3.7 million Instagram followers.
DeVille is a well-known porn star who also has an OnlyFans account. She’s one of the many adult performers who have built up sizable presences on Instagram, which now serves as a crucial part of their personal marketing.
“Every morning when I first log into my phone, even if it takes a moment to load Instagram, I have an adrenaline rush,” DeVille said. “Imagine that stress, imagine waking up every morning and wondering if you’ve lost your career.”
Over the past seven years, DeVille said platforms like Instagram have become “completely invaluable” for driving traffic to personal websites where performers make money. And while people like her have long had to tread carefully to stay within Instagram’s rules, many say the company’s moderation efforts have gotten more punitive and less predictable after policies put in place in 2018, following the passage of a federal law targeting human trafficking on the internet called SESTA-FOSTA. 
Ten people in the sex-work industry who spoke with NBC News said they go to great lengths to stay within the boundaries of Instagram’s guidelines, keenly aware that their content could be struck and their accounts restricted at any moment. Still, they said Instagram has removed their content and banned or suspended them even when they believe they were following the platform’s rules. 
Many of the adult performers who spoke with NBC News said they feel those guidelines are not enforced consistently, noting that many celebrities such as Kim Kardashian and Britney Spears post risqué and near-nude photos and don’t get hit with the same bans.
“When our accounts are ripped away without breaking community guidelines, you might not be able to pay rent, you might not be able to pay your mortgage, you might not be able to feed yourself,” DeVille said.
Cherie DeVille has been one of porn's biggest names for years, and has millions of followers on Instagram.Nolwen Cifuentes for NBC News
The 10 people who spoke to NBC News included famous porn stars, OnlyFans models who have never posed nude and people who have done sex work. All of them said Instagram has become indispensable for their careers, for their incomes and for organizing the larger community of sex workers. 
“We don’t want anyone to feel marginalized by our policies, including adult creators, but it’s important to consider our youngest users when we decide what we do and don’t allow on Instagram, as teens as young as 13 use our platform,” said a Meta spokesperson in a statement. Meta is the parent company of Facebook and Instagram.
The moderation around sex has become so sweeping that a wide variety of accounts — not just porn performers — have faced restrictions that they view as unwarranted, from the business account of one of the largest pornography websites in the world, Pornhub, to sex educators and nonpornographic OnlyFans creators. Creators say that inconsistencies in the site’s policies abound, making the rules and guidelines difficult to navigate. While Pornhub’s account was removed, OnlyFans’ account is allowed to exist. Some adult actresses’ accounts remain intact while others don’t.
Since 2020, accounts that post about sex education have reported being unexpectedly deactivated, which can be appealed, and having their posts permanently taken down by the platform. 
Erika Moen, an artist and author who makes educational content about bodies and sex, said Instagram can be a particularly important platform as sex education comes under fire in some parts of the U.S.
“It’s depriving people. This is their one resource for finding this information,” Moen said, referencing recent efforts that have targeted sex education in schools and libraries. 
Many of the people who spoke with NBC News said that their content has been banned from Instagram under its Sexual Solicitation policy. The policy says Meta allows for the discussion of “sex worker rights advocacy” but doesn’t allow content that “facilitates, encourages or coordinates” commercial sex work, to avoid facilitating sex trafficking. 
That policy was introduced in October 2018, six months after SESTA-FOSTA was signed into law, making tech companies liable if ads for prostitution are found on their websites. 
Not long after that law was enacted, the internet economics for adult creators changed.
Platforms that let people directly sell porn and nude or sensual images, like OnlyFans, have exploded in popularity since 2020, creating a new line of monetization for influencers. 
That has left adult content creators to walk a fine line, striving to stay within the rules by posting pictures of themselves in lingerie or bikinis. Still, their accounts can be suspended. Two adult stars with more than 2.5 million followers each shared screenshots of notifications from Instagram saying they had violated the Sexual Solicitation policy. The posts showed the performers in lingerie, which the women say doesn’t violate Instagram’s policies. 
That conflict between the rise of major adult online platforms and Instagram’s sex crackdown has left some creators struggling and sometimes pushed into more dangerous sex work, two people in the industry said. 
SESTA-FOSTA was supposed to counter sex trafficking but, in practice, four performers, the national trade organization for the adult industry and a tech policy expert told NBC News that it has led social media platforms, including Instagram, to clamp down on content they say is completely unrelated to trafficking.
“Because it’s so ambiguous and platforms aren’t really sure what might get them in trouble with content that’s even adjacent to sexual content, they err on the side of over-removal,” said Evan Greer, director of digital rights non-profit Fight for the Future. 
A three-year report on sex trafficking from the U.S. Government Accountability Office published in 2021 found that SESTA-FOSTA had only been successfully used once by a federal prosecutor, and that the online commercial sex market had fragmented since the introduction of the legislation, making it more difficult for law enforcement to gather tips and evidence. 
Sex workers and those impacted by Instagram’s heightened moderation of their accounts say the actions taken against them have undeniably changed their experience using the application, and interfered with their income driven by the app. They say how Instagram moderates them can make the difference between them thriving and barely surviving. 
"Imagine that stress, imagine waking up every morning and wondering if you’ve lost your career," DeVille said about checking Instagram at the beginning of the day.Nolwen Cifuentes for NBC News
Elle Stanger, a sex worker, podcaster and certified sex educator, said she has been suspended three times from Instagram, where she has 164,000 Instagram followers, and lost 40%  of her income since 2019, when Instagram made changes to its Sexual Solicitation policy.
“People working in the industry became poorer because they couldn’t advertise,” she said. “They were endangered, because in order to make ends meet, we started doing more dangerous jobs.”
Adult star Abigail Mac, who has 2.6 million Instagram followers, said her account has been suspended at least four times. She said she has gotten it back each time by emailing Instagram 10 to 15 times every day for three to four weeks. 
And each time, Mac said, she gets emails from Instagram that say her account was accidentally taken down and is now restored.
Trip Richards, a transgender man who originally did sex work to fund his transition, said his Instagram account with 35,000 followers was suspended twice. He said both times he was only able to get it back after contacting a personal connection at Instagram. Richards said that part of his consideration when uploading to Instagram is the phrasing of captions, since using the word “sex” can result in a post being removed, even if it’s educational. 
“I quoted myself from an article I was writing about trans sex work issues,” Richards said. “I forgot to censor every time I wrote the word ‘sex,’ with an asterisk or whatever. I forgot, I pressed ‘post,’ two seconds later the post was down. There was nothing salacious about it, just using the word ‘sex,’ and that’s another strike against my account.”
Natassia Dreams, a Black trans porn performer with 20,000 Instagram followers now, said her first Instagram account with 70,000 followers was permanently deleted in 2020 after 10 years of the account’s existence. She has since made around 12 new accounts, Dreams said.  
Before joining Pornhub as a creator ambassador and restarting her current Instagram, Dreams said she gave up on the platform entirely.
“Now I have it back and I’m treading lightly, very carefully, but the last time I got deplatformed I didn’t post anything explicit, I posted a workout picture in the gym,” Dreams said. “It’s very frustrating to me because I feel like they’re trying to erase my existence in the world and I’m already fighting society for my existence and my place in the world.”

Professional surfer Bethany Hamilton said she does not intend to participate in upcoming World Surf League events after the organization announced a change in policies that will allow transgender women to compete in women’s events.
In two different videos shared to Instagram this week, Hamilton said she believes she is speaking up for other pro surfer women who fear being “ostracized” for having the same opinions.
The World Surf League this month announced plans to adopt the International Surfing Association’s policy, which requires trans athletes seeking to compete in the women’s division to maintain a testosterone level less than 5 nonomoles per liter (nmol/L) for the previous 12 months.
In her video, Hamilton questioned this policy.
“Is a hormone level an honest and accurate depiction that someone indeed is a male or female? Is it as simple as this?” she asked.
In her follow up video, she questioned the policy again: “Am I just a hormone number? Is it as simple as that?”
Hamilton argued that moving forward with these policies in surfing would allow for “male-bodied dominance” seen in other “women’s sports like running, swimming and others.”
Multiple studies in recent years have looked at whether transgender athletes have competitive advantages. Joanna Harper, a competitive runner and medical physicist who is transgender, published a first-of-its-kind study in 2015 that looked at eight trans women runners who took treatments to lower their testosterone levels and found they did not perform better in several women’s races than they did in men’s races.
A newer 2021 study published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine, however, conducted fitness tests with 29 trans men and 46 trans women and found that trans women retained an athletic edge over their cisgender peers, even after 12 months on hormone therapy.
Harper, who continues to study athletic performances of transgender people and serves as an adviser to the International Olympic Committee, told OutSports in 2021 that most research has nuances, including her own studies, and said conversations should be had in the greater context of sports as a whole.
The debate over trans athletes competing in women’s sports appeared in headlines last year when Lia Thomas, a trans woman, participated in and won an NCAA swimming championship for her school, the University of Pennsylvania, where she previously competed on the men’s team. Also, in 2021, trans runner CeCe Telfer was barred from competing in the women’s 400-meter hurdles at the Tokyo Olympics for not keeping her testosterone levels below the required 5 nonomoles per liter for a span of 12 months, as per the World Athletics’ guidelines.
Transgender athletes have been allowed to participate at the Olympics since 2004, but until the Tokyo Games, none had done so openly, The Associated Press reported at the time.
As for the sport of surfing, BuzzFeed News pointed to surfer Sasha Jane Lowerson, the first openly trans woman to win the women’s open in Australia in May 2022, as the impetus for WSL to implement this policy on trans women surfers.
Hamilton — who is well-known for her memoir “Soul Surfer” and losing her left arm in a 2003 shark attack only to return to the sport — concluded one of her Instagram videos with the suggestion that a separate division be created for trans women, “so that all can have a fair opportunity.”

A study of more than 2.5 million pregnant people in California found that those exposed to wildfire smoke for at least one day faced a higher risk of giving birth prematurely.
The findings were presented Saturday at the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine’s annual meeting and are currently undergoing peer review. They're set to be published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
The researchers collected data from hospital records of pregnant people from 2007 to 2012, then analyzed daily estimates of wildfire smoke in the participants' ZIP codes during their pregnancies, based on satellite images.
The results suggested that just one day of smoke exposure slightly raised the risk of spontaneous preterm birth — defined as before the 37th week of pregnancy. But the odds of preterm birth increased by 0.3% with each additional day of smoke exposure.
"Most pregnant persons are having well over one day of exposure, and the chronicity of this exposure, which continues to increase, is really the worrisome relationship with wildfire smoke," said Dr. Anne Waldrop, the study’s lead author and a maternal-fetal medicine fellow at Stanford University.
Waldrop's team estimated that 86% of the pregnant people studied in California had been exposed to fine particulate matter from wildfire smoke during their first or second trimesters, or during the four weeks leading up to conception. On average, the study participants were exposed to more than seven days of smoke during that time.
Exposure was only associated with preterm birth within the first 20 weeks of pregnancy, however, not before conception.
The term fine particulate matter refers to tiny particles in the air that are less than 4% of the diameter of a human hair. Once inhaled, the particles can penetrate into the lungs and enter the bloodstream. They can increase a person's risk of asthma, lung cancer and other chronic lung diseases, particularly among vulnerable groups like older people, infants and children, and those who are pregnant.
"Not all smoke exposures are these dramatic smog- and smoke-filled days," Waldrop said. "Most likely a lot of these [people] didn't recognize the days that they were being exposed."
Since smoke from fires in the West can travel thousands of miles, she added, "it’s not an isolated issue with the Western United States anymore."
Dr. Leonardo Trasande, a pediatrics professor at New York University who researches children’s environmental health, said the risk of preterm birth could worsen over time as wildfires become more frequent and intense.
"Insofar as wildfires are a byproduct of climate change, it’s common sense to put two and two together and ultimately relate preterm births to climate change," he said.
Trasande's own research has focused on the link between air pollution and preterm births. He previously estimated that nearly 16,000 preterm births in the U.S. in 2010 alone were attributable to exposure to air pollution.
On a global scale, another analysis found that air pollution likely contributed to nearly 6 million premature births in 2019. Rakesh Ghosh, the author of that analysis and an epidemiologist at the University of California, San Francisco, said that exposure to wildfire smoke during the first trimester can cause the amniotic sac to rupture early due to inflammation.
"Any abnormality at that stage, in the early stage of the development of the placenta, can cause a very long-term condition," he said.
Premature birth is a risk factor for death in the first 28 days to one year of an infant's life. Research also suggests that preterm birth can be associated with developmental delays in childhood.
Trasande said it's difficult to compare the risk of wildfire smoke to other forms of air pollution, say from cigarettes or vehicles.
"What distinguishes certain types of smoke is what’s being burned," he said. "We know, for example, that, increasingly, plastic is a component of fires, period. And wildfires lead to damaged homes, which lead to emissions of what’s burned in those homes."
Waldrop said emerging evidence suggests wildfire smoke might be particularly harmful because it contains many different pollutants, including carbon monoxide.
"There's actually now data that suggests that wildfire smoke pollutants can be more biologically active and worse for human health than other forms of pollutants," she said.
Aside from leaving an area where there's wildfire smoke or staying indoors with an air filter running, it's difficult to avoid exposure, health experts said. N95 masks may help prevent high levels of exposure, Ghosh said, though experts disagree as to how effective masks can be in smoky air.
Waldrop said it's also hard to determine the precise line beyond which smoke becomes a serious health threat to an individual.
"What are the thresholds for smoke exposure that are safe? That’s really not clearly defined," she said.

A woman in Florida filed a lawsuit late Thursday against the maker of EzriCare artificial tears and Walmart after suffering a bacterial infection that she said was caused by the eyedrops.
Houston-based Lange Law Firm, which is representing the woman, Teresa Phillips, 60, of Bradford County, said the lawsuit is the first nationwide over injuries related to eyedrops linked to a drug-resistant bacterial infection called Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
According to the lawsuit, Phillips purchased EzriCare artificial tears in the weeks before her infection.
In May, Phillips said she felt "itchy" and had "unrelenting pain in her eyes." She underwent a round of antibiotics, according to the suit, but after a week "it became apparent that the antibiotics weren't working to stop the infection."
Phillips had to have surgery to remedy some of the issues related to the infection and still has symptoms, according to the firm.
The EzriCare artificial tears have been linked to at least 56 cases of bacterial infection in 12 states. Five of those people so far have had vision loss. One person died when the bacteria entered the bloodstream. Doctors say there could be more cases.
The maker of the eyedrops, Global Pharma Healthcare, announced on Feb. 2 that it was voluntarily recalling the product because of possible contamination.
While the eyedrops have not yet definitively been traced to the infections, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration say they are currently working with state and local health officials to investigate the outbreak. In an alert announced last week, the CDC said it had collected specimens from May 2022 to January.
Global Pharma and Walmart did not immediately respond to requests for comment about the lawsuit.
The FDA first learned about the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outbreak in December and discovered the link to the EzriCare drops in January, according to FDA spokesperson Audra Harrison.
The EzriCare drops are not FDA-approved products, the agency said, and are legally marketed under a regulatory pathway that allows the sale of over-the-counter products that meet certain requirements. The FDA does not pre-review or approve these kinds of products, the agency said.

Social media companies have slashed hundreds of content moderation jobs during the ongoing wave of tech layoffs, stoking fears among industry workers and online safety advocates that major platforms are less capable of curbing abuse than they were just months ago.
Tech companies have announced more than 101,000 job cuts this year alone, on top of the nearly 160,000 over the course of 2022, according to tracker Layoffs.fyi. Among the wide range of job functions affected by those reductions are “trust and safety” teams — the units within major platform operators and at the contracting firms they hire that enforce content policies and counter hate speech and disinformation.
Earlier this month, Alphabet reportedly reduced the workforce of Jigsaw, a Google unit that builds content moderation tools and describes itself as tracking “threats to open societies,” such as civilian surveillance, by at least a third in recent weeks. Meta’s main subcontractor for content moderation in Africa said in January that it was cutting 200 employees as it shifted away from content review services. In November, Twitter’s mass layoffs affected many staffers charged with curbing prohibited content like hate speech and targeted harassment, and the company disbanded its Trust and Safety Council the following month.
Postings on Indeed with “trust and safety” in their job titles were down 70% last month from January 2022 among employers in all sectors, the job board told NBC News. And within the tech sector, ZipRecruiter said job postings on its platform related to “people safety” outside of cybersecurity roles fell by roughly half between October and January.
While tech recruiting in particular has pulled back across the board as the industry contracts from its pandemic hiring spree, advocates said the worldwide need for content moderation remains acute.
 
 “The markets are going up and down, but the need for trust and safety practices is constant or, if anything, increases over time,” said Charlotte Willner, executive director of the Trust & Safety Professional Association, a global organization for workers who develop and enforce digital platforms’ policies around online behavior.
A Twitter employee who still works on the company’s trust and safety operations and requested not to be identified for fear of retribution described feeling worried and overwhelmed since the department’s reductions last fall.
“We were already underrepresented globally. The U.S. had much more staffing than outside the U.S.,” the employee said. “In places like India, which are really fraught with complicated religious and ethnic divisions, that hateful conduct and potentially violent conduct has really increased. Fewer people means less work is being done in a lot of different spaces.”
Twitter accounts offering to trade or sell material featuring child sexual abuse remained on the platform for months after CEO Elon Musk vowed in November to crack down on child exploitation, NBC News reported in January. “We definitely know we still have work to do in the space, and certainly believe we have been improving rapidly,” Twitter said at the time in response to the findings.
Twitter didn’t respond to requests for comment. A spokesperson for Alphabet didn’t comment on Jigsaw.
A Meta spokesperson said the company “respect[s] Sama’s decision to exit the content review services it provides to social media platforms. We are working with our partners during this transition to ensure there’s no impact on our ability to review content.” Meta has more than 40,000 people “working on safety and security,” including 15,000 content reviewers, the spokesperson said.
Concerns about trust and safety reductions coincide with growing interest in Washington  in tightening regulation of Big Tech on multiple fronts.
In his State of the Union address on Tuesday, President Biden urged Congress to “pass bipartisan legislation to strengthen antitrust enforcement and prevent big online platforms from giving their own products an unfair advantage,” and to “impose stricter limits on the personal data the companies collect on all of us.” Biden and lawmakers in both parties have also signaled openness to reforming Section 230, a measure that has long shielded tech companies from liability for the speech and activity on their platforms.
“Various governments are seeking to force large tech companies and social media platforms [to become more] responsible for ‘harmful’ content,” said Alan Woodward, a cybersecurity expert and professor at the University of Surrey in the U.K.
In addition to putting tech firms at greater risk of regulation, any backsliding on content moderation “should worry everyone,” he said. “This is not just about weeding out inappropriate child abuse material but covers subtle areas of misinformation that we know are aimed at influencing our democracy.”

Adidas said Thursday that it is at risk of losing as much as 1 billion Euros — equivalent to $1.07 billion — in operating profits if it fails to successfully offload its inventory of Kanye West-designed Yeezy merchandise.
In its financial guidance for 2023, the Germany-based sneaker giant warned that the initial "adverse impact" from not selling the items would be €1.2 billion in revenues, or approximately $1.3 billion; and around €500 million, or $533 million, in operating profit.
Adidas dropped West, who now goes by Ye, in October over the rapper's racist and antisemitic remarks. Adidas had previously derived as much as 10% of its total annual revenues — approximately $2 billion — from its Yeezy line. It's one reason cited by analysts to explain why Adidas took longer to distance itself from the controversial musician than other brands after Ye made a series of hateful remarks about Jewish people, while also donning a "White Lives Matter" shirt.
Eventually, Adidas condemned Ye's language.
“Adidas does not tolerate antisemitism and any other sort of hate speech,” the company said in a statement after announcing the termination of their relationship. “Ye’s recent comments and actions have been unacceptable, hateful and dangerous, and they violate the company’s values of diversity and inclusion, mutual respect and fairness.”
Ye's remarks have cost him business deals with virtually all other major brands with which he'd previously had relationships, including Gap, Balenciaga, Footlocker and TJ Maxx.
But the impact to Adidas' bottom line looks to be the most significant. Although some analysts had forecast that Adidas would be able to repurpose the Yeezy inventory if it was stripped of the Yeezy label, Adidas also warned Friday that it could decide to not do so — something that would result in the company's operating profit falling by an additional €500 million, or $533 million.
The company expects one-off costs of as much as €200 million, or $213 million, no matter what, it said.
“The numbers speak for themselves. We are currently not performing the way we should,” said Adidas CEO Bjørn Gulden in a statement. “2023 will be a year of transition to set the base to again be a growing and profitable company."
Shares in Adidas plummeted as much as 11% Friday in trading on the Frankfurt, Germany stock exchange. 

Florida lawmakers have approved a bill that makes changes to Disney's Reedy Creek special governing district, including replacing its board of supervisors and giving it a new name.
Gov. Ron DeSantis is expected to sign the bill into law.
The new legislation, which overrides an earlier proposal to dissolve the district entirely, will keep the region's key operational procedures intact. One of those procedures concerns the district's ability to raise taxes and issue bonds to build and maintain infrastructure serving the Walt Disney World Resort.
"In terms of the day-to-day operation of the district, it doesn’t look like much is going to change," said Aubrey Jewett, associate professor and assistant school director at the University of Central Florida.
The biggest change: DeSantis will now be able to appoint the district's five board members, subject to state Senate approval. Previously, Disney had de facto control of the board as the district's largest landowner.
DeSantis has sought greater authority over the district in the wake of his squabble with Disney. The governor's actions were motivated in part by the media and entertainment giant expressing objections to DeSantis’ bill to restrict teaching about sexual orientation and gender identity to students in the state from kindergarten to third grade.
And the district will be renamed: From the Reedy Creek Special Improvement District to the Central Florida Tourism Oversight District.
DeSantis' administration has called the new legislation necessary, saying in a statement that the district had historically "gifted extraordinary special privileges to a single corporation."
"Until Governor DeSantis acted, the Walt Disney Company maintained sole control over the District," a spokesman for the governor said in a statement. "This power amounted to an unaccountable Corporate Kingdom. Florida is dissolving the Corporate Kingdom and beginning a new era of accountability and transparency."
Disney is monitoring the legislation, Jeff Vahle, president of Walt Disney World Resort, said in a statement.
“Disney works under a number of different models and jurisdictions around the world, and regardless of the outcome, we remain committed to providing the highest quality experience for the millions of guests who visit each year,” Vahle said.
Disney recently announced the layoffs of 7,000 employees as part of a broad restructuring. But construction still appears to be progressing on a Disney office campus in Lake Nona, roughly 20 miles east of Disney World. According to the Orlando Business Journal, Disney recently filed a zoning application for a master plan for the campus, which is slated to house 2,000 jobs.

Walmart Inc. is warning major packaged goods makers that it can no longer stomach their price hikes, pitching its own private-label products to shoppers as less-expensive alternatives to suppliers’ name-brand goods.
For the world’s biggest retailer, which reports earnings Feb. 21, any increase in prices — even by just a few cents — can have negative effects, prompting some shoppers to look for bargains at dollar stores or warehouse chains such Costco.
Walmart, which touts its “Everyday Low Price” policy, raised prices last year on milk, frozen meals and Tide detergent, to name a few, as its suppliers battled soaring costs of everything from chemicals to wheat and fuel.
But now with the cost of cardboard cases declining by 40-50%, the cost of transportation falling by 25-30% and the cost of raw materials declining significantly, “retailers like Walmart will say ‘hey you already had three rounds of price hikes last year, why are you giving us another?’” said Burt Flickinger, managing director at retail consulting firm Strategic Resource Group.
Rod Little, CEO of Schick razor maker Edgewell Personal Care Co., told Reuters that it “will be very difficult” to pass new price increases through to retailers going forward. Walmart is Edgewell’s biggest customer.
“(Walmart) said to us, ‘From here, our consumer is challenged, we’re going to be looking out for consumers, so you’re going to have to have really good reasons if you’re going to price up from here,” Little said in an interview.
“Because the consumer is now under more pressure, and Walmart is under pressure, that sets up a dynamic where there’s probably not a lot of pricing going forward.”
Walmart did not respond to a request for comment.
At Unilever, the purveyor of Dove soap, Knorr bullion cubes and Hellmann’s mayonnaise, finance chief Graeme Pitkethly said Thursday that it was “not yet past peak pricing,” even after implementing a record 13.3% average price hike in the fourth quarter of 2022. Unilever estimated net material inflation of $1.5 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in the first half of this year.
Procter & Gamble, maker of Tide detergent and Pampers diapers, said on January 19 it would continue to raise prices despite seeing a drop in volumes. It sells more than $10 billion worth of products through Walmart.
To be sure, Walmart has the upper hand. Its own store brands, Great Value and Equate, compete directly with Unilever’s and P&G’s product lines in the United States. Forty-three percent of all purchases of store brand packaged goods made online in the U.S. were on Walmart.com, according to the research firm Numerator, which measured transactions for the last quarter of 2022.
The clout Walmart holds over suppliers also means that Walmart would likely get the lowest percentage of any price hikes manufacturers implement, according to investors who track the company. “Walmart is just a conduit (for P&G and Unilever) that uses its enormous size to provide the best deals it can for customers,” said David Klink, senior equity analyst at Huntington Private Bank.
“We would think Walmart might emerge with less of a consumer goodwill hit than these other companies in a rising-price environment,” said Kilnk, whose firm holds more than $45 million in Walmart shares.
Walmart previously has pulled products from shelves over disputes on pricing. In 2018, Walmart pulled Campbell Soup Co.’s products during the key winter season over a dispute over prices and shelf space promotion.
Across the pond, tussles between Britain’s largest supermarket chain Tesco and Kraft Heinz led to Heinz baked beans being removed from shelves. At the time, Tesco labeled Heinz’s price hikes as “unjustifiable.”
Huggies diaper maker Kimberly-Clark said it was embedding additional pricing this year, while toothpaste maker Colgate said it planned further price hikes in the first half of 2023.
“We’re trying to figure out with our (dry grocery and consumables) suppliers, what could we do that’s different that would help mitigate some of those costs?” Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said at an investor conference in December.
“Unfortunately, some of those suppliers are still pointing us towards more inflation next year on top of the mid-double digits this year. And we don’t like that for any reason,” he said.
Shoppers at chains such as Walmart and Kroger were waiting longer to buy new products like bleach and kitty litter, and in some cases trading down to buy smaller sizes, or larger wholesale quantities because they want more value per unit, Clorox’s CFO Kevin Jacobsen said February 2.
After raising prices four times in 2022, he said, Clorox doesn’t “have any additional plans” to hike prices this year.

Yahoo will lay off more than 20% of its workforce by the end of 2023, eliminating 1,000 positions this week alone, the company said in a statement Thursday.
Private equity firm Apollo Global Management acquired 90% of Yahoo from Verizon in September 2021. The company had about 10,000 employees at that time, according to PitchBook data.
Axios reported that more than 1,600 workers would lose their jobs in the latest cuts, suggesting the company’s current head count is closer to 8,000 employees.
The layoffs are part of a broader effort by the company to streamline operations in Yahoo’s advertising unit. The Yahoo for Business segment’s strategy had “struggled to live up to our high standards across the entire stack,” according to a Yahoo spokesperson.
“Given the new focus of the new Yahoo Advertising group, we will reduce the workforce of the former Yahoo for Business division by nearly 50% by the end of 2023,” a Yahoo spokesperson told CNBC.
Yahoo said the company would shift efforts to its 30-year partnership with Taboola, a digital advertising company, to satisfy ad services.
“These decisions are never easy, but we believe these changes will simplify and strengthen our advertising business for the long run, while enabling Yahoo to deliver better value to our customers and partners,” the Yahoo spokesperson said.
It was not immediately clear what benefits or severance laid-off employees would receive. A Yahoo spokesperson did not immediately respond to follow-up questions sent by CNBC.

WASHINGTON — A top Southwest Airlines executive apologized for the carrier’s winter meltdown in a Senate hearing over the travel debacle that separated thousands of flyers from their families, wedding ceremonies and even medications in the days after Christmas.
“I want to sincerely and humbly apologize to those impacted by the disruption, which caused a tremendous amount of anguish, inconvenience and missed opportunities for our customers and employees,” Southwest Chief Operating Officer Andrew Watterson told the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee on Thursday.
The Dallas-based airline has been under intense scrutiny after it canceled more than 16,000 flights during late December’s frigid weather across much of the country, which disrupted services among the major airlines but none as severely as Southwest’s.
Under at times intense questioning from bipartisan lawmakers, Watterson promised a range of measures to make things right with fliers and prevent a future weather-related breakdown. Those included updates to scheduling software that Watterson said were slated to go into effect Friday, along with ongoing assessments and funding to address icing issues at airports prone to freezing conditions.
Some lawmakers pressed Watterson for changes to Southwest’s policies toward customers caught up in the holiday crisis.
Sen. Ed Markey said affected customers should be offered cash hardship payments, rather than the frequent-flier points Southwest has extended to compensate for inconveniences and financial losses many endured. In addition to refunding those travelers’ tickets, the airline has offered points that Watterson said were equivalent to $300 to put toward future bookings.
“The point system that you want to use is only going to be useless,” Markey countered. “It’s nothing but an empty gesture.”
The Massachusetts Democrat also pushed Watterson to commit to paying for customers’ flights should they choose to fly with other airlines.
Watterson demurred on both proposals, saying, “If they choose to fly somebody else, that is certainly their choice.” He later added, “We will not pay them cash to pay to another airline unless it’s for reimbursement of a flight they took in the disruption.”
The meltdown has put a spotlight on Southwest’s flight routing system and the technology it runs on, which differs from those of other major carriers. Southwest’s “point to point” approach means that planes typically fly consecutive routes rather than operating around a series of hubs. That heightens the risk of disruptions snowballing across the system when certain flights and crews can’t reach their destinations, experts have said.
Watterson addressed criticisms of its systems Thursday, saying, “We’re increasing our IT spend faster than our company is growing.” He said Southwest was investing $1.3 billion in tech upgrades this year, adding that the figure marks a 25% increase from 2019, before the onset of pandemic-related costs.
Captain Casey A. Murray, president of the Southwest Airlines Pilots Association, who also testified at the hearing, said the carrier’s leadership didn’t sufficiently prepare for the winter storm or heed frontline workers’ warnings. He also accused executives of having “allowed the airline to drift away from an employee-centered culture” over the years.
In response to allegations that Southwest had excessively prioritized shareholders, Watterson said the company recently reinstated its quarterly dividend only after funding “top industry wages” for employees, aircraft purchases, IT department needs and debt repayments.
The Transportation Department said late last month that it is investigating Southwest, including whether company executives scheduled an unrealistic volume of flights, “which under federal law is considered an unfair and deceptive practice.” The carrier has said it is cooperating with all inquiries.
Thursday’s hearing also showcased competing visions of the role of government in regulating commercial aviation and addressing affordability concerns. Airline ticket prices have climbed over the past year and remained extraordinarily high even during this winter’s travel havoc. Federal data shows airfares in December 2022 averaged more than 28% as high as that month in 2021.
“Some Democrats on this committee were proposing the government step in with overly complex, anticompetitive and frankly unnecessary regulations that would collectively have the result of making flying unaffordable for many Americans,” said Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas.
Other people who testified Thursday argued for more consumer choice by other means. Paul Hudson, president of the Flyers Rights passenger advocacy group, called the industry an “oligopoly” consisting of four major airlines and criticized what he described as the government’s laissez-faire approach to deregulation.
Clifford Winston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that privatizing U.S. airports in major metropolitan areas could help open the door for more international carriers to serve domestic passengers as well as ease congestion.
“If you want to reduce the likelihood of mistakes, and you want people to be able to correct their mistakes, they need to be held accountable,” said Winston. “More competition will enable that to happen.”

Attention Netflix password sharers: Your days of giving free access to your account to someone outside your home are numbered.
The streaming platform announced Wednesday it would begin charging subscribers in a handful of countries to add up to two additional users who don’t live in the same household to their account.
For now, the option of buying extra subscriptions is being rolled out in Canada, New Zealand, Portugal and Spain.
And the sharing plans are only available to members using Standard ($15.49 a month) and Premium ($19.99 a month) subscriptions.
The official announcement confirms recent reports surfaced by users that Netflix was ready to impose the new sharing rules.
In its latest release, Netflix reiterated a previous estimate that more than 100 million households have shared their accounts with others, something the company said is "impacting our ability to invest in great new TV and films."
The company said the new sharing restrictions would not impact users' ability to watch on a new or separate device they have access to, like a TV at a hotel or a vacation rental. 
But the company's message about restricting sharing is clear.
"A Netflix account is intended for one household," it says.
